.TH host 1 "January 28, 2021" "Version 1.2.0"
.SH NAME
host - a simple, static, web server for easily hosting files over LAN

.SH SYNOPSIS
host --help

host [-h] [-q] FILE

host [--hidden] [--quiet] [--output OUTPUT_FILE] [--port PORT] FILE

host -i [-h] [-q]

host --stdin [--hidden] [--quiet] [--output OUTPUT_FILE] [--port PORT]

.SH DESCRIPTION

host is a simple, static, web server for easily hosting files over LAN. host
makes no security guarantees, so it should only be used on a LAN that you trust
(no port forwarding and probably no coffee shops).

host runs in three different modes: file, stdin, and directory.

.PP
In file mode, the server responds to GET requests with the contents of the
file, regardless of the route sent. In file mode, the program reads the
contents of the file every time a GET request is sent.

Stdin mode acts similarly to file mode, just that host reads from stdin instead
of a file and stdin is only read once. Because of this read-once property of
host, it could be used as a method to host a file without changes on disk
affecting changes in what is being hosted.

.PP
Directory mode is very different. In directory mode, the server acts like a
real server, allowing the clients to traverse the directory tree, where the
root of the directory tree is the specified directory (see FILE above). host
has an html template, known as directory.html, embeded inside. This html
template is invoked every time a user sends a request to a directory that does
not contain an index.html file, when the user adds the ls key to their query
(localhost:PORT/foobar?ls), or when the user requests a file that does not 
exist.

.PP
These modes are selected at runtime based on the command line arguments passed
into host. If the -i or --stdin option is selected, host will execute in stdin
mode. If a file is passed into the FILE argument (see SYNOPSIS), host will run
in file mode. Likewise, if a directory is passed into the FILE argument, host
will run in directory mode.

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
.B --help

Displays help text and exits

.TP
.B -h, --hidden

Shows hidden files. This option is only useful in directory mode and will do
nothing if it is outside of directory mode.

.TP
.B -i, --stdin

Puts host into stdin mode and will serve whatever it finds from stdin.

.TP
.B --mime [mimetype]

Sets the mimetype that will be sent by host. This is useful for stdin mode, as
the default mimetype is text/plain. In file mode, the mimetype is determined
via the file extension. This option overrides that. Mimetypes should be
inputted via their file extensions and not the `type/standard` format.
(so, html over text/html, txt over text/plain, etc.)

.TP
.B --output [FILE]

Instead of printing out request logs, the request logs will be silently sent
to FILE.

.TP
.B --port [PORT]

Set the port host will be host on. Set to 8080 by default.

.TP
.B -q, --quiet

Prevents host from printing request logs.

.SH AUTHOR

Please send all bug reports to the GitHub issue tracker:
.B https://github.com/RainbowAsteroids/host/issues

host was written by Rainbow Asteroids (rainbowasteroids@protonmail.com) in Nim.
